.TH EKA 1 "Version 0.2.0" "February 2026" "Eka User Manual"
.SH NAME
eka \- list directory contents with color coding
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B eka
[\fIflags\fR] [\fIdirectory\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBEka\fR is a modern replacement for the traditional \fBls\fR command, written in Rust. It displays files and directories with color-coded output for easy identification.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Basic Options"
.TP
\fB\-1\fR
List one file per line.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-long\fR
Use a long listing format with columns (permissions, size, date, name).
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-directories\fR
List directories only, not their contents.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-all\fR
Show hidden files (starting with .).
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-human\-readable\fR
Display file sizes in human-readable format (KB, MB, GB).
.SS "Classification Options"
.TP
\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-classify\fR
Append file type indicators (* / = > @ |) to file names.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-inode\fR
Print the inode number of each file.
.SS "Sorting Options"
.TP
\fB\-S\fR
Sort by file size, largest files first.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR
Sort by modification time, newest first.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR
Sort by access time, newest first.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-reverse\fR
Reverse the sort order.
.TP
\fB\-\-sort=\fR\fIWORD\fR
Sort by WORD instead of name: none, name, size, time, access, change, extension.
.SS "Recursive Options"
.TP
\fB\-R\fR, \fB\-\-recursive\fR
List subdirectories recursively.
.SH OUTPUT FORMAT
.SS "Short Format (default)"
Displays file names in a vertical list with color coding based on file type.
.SS "Long Format (\fB\-l\fR)"
Displays detailed information in columns:
.PP
\fIPermissions  Links  User  Group  Size  Date  Name\fR
.SH COLOR CODES
.PP
Eka uses ANSI color codes to distinguish file types:
.TP
\fBCyan\fR
Directories
.TP
\fBBright Green\fR
Executable files
.TP
\fBYellow\fR
Symbolic links
.TP
\fBMagenta\fR
Image files
.TP
\fBRed\fR
Video files
.TP
\fBOrange\fR
Audio files
.TP
\fBPurple\fR
Compressed files
.TP
\fBWhite\fR
Regular files
.TP
\fBDark Gray\fR
Hidden files
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
List current directory:
\fBeka\fR
.TP
List with long format:
\fBeka -l\fR
.TP
List including hidden files:
\fBeka -a\fR
.TP
Long format with human-readable sizes:
\fBeka -lh\fR
.TP
Sort by size (largest first):
\fBeka -lS\fR
.TP
Sort by modification time:
\fBeka -lt\fR
.TP
List directories recursively:
\fBeka -R\fR
.TP
Classify files with indicators:
\fBeka -F\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Written by the Eka contributors.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/yourusername/eka/issues
.SH COPYRIGHT
MIT License
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ls (1),
.BR dir (1),
.BR vdir (1)
